Welcome to deploying
Oracle RAC 10g for Mac OS X Server.
I'd like to introduce you to...
Barb Lunhild from Oracle Corporation.
Barb.
Thanks, Chris.
Good morning, everyone,
and thank you for sticking around for
the last session of the conference.
I appreciate it.
My name, as Chris said, is Barb Lunhild.
I'm currently product manager for
Oracle Real Application Clusters.
How many people in the
audience use Oracle at all?
Barb Lunhild.
Oh, good.
Okay.
And how many of you have used
real application clusters?
So a few of you know what it is.
And how many of you who've tried
it on your Apple Mac OS platform?
So even a few of you have done that.
So great.
So I've worked at Oracle.
I just had my 10th anniversary there.
I started out as a field consultant.
If you notice the accent
somewhere along the way,
I originally started in Canada and
worked there in consulting,
moved into the sales
consulting organization,
and now work at headquarters and
in product manager for the real
application clusters option.
So for a lot of my career at Oracle,
I've dealt a lot with the high
availability side of database and
trying to make your applications.
And your database very highly available.
And that's what real application
clusters brings to the table.
It's an option of your Oracle database
that allows you to have flexible
scalability and very high availability.
So what I'm going to talk to
you about this morning is what
Oracle Real Application Clusters is,
just to make sure we're
all on the same page and we
understand what the product is.
And then give you some best
practices around deploying
RAC in your organization.
And then after that,
my colleague Jeff Needham
is going to come up.
And Jeff's been doing some work
with the Real Application Clusters
on the Mac OS platform.
And he's going to give you
some tips specifically aimed
at the Mac OS platform.
So to start off with,
I just thought I'd give you
a quote from Noel Yohanna.
Noel is one of the analysts
from Forrester Research,
and he did a review of
Oracle real application clusters,
talked to many of our customers,
and produced a document,
which is available to you
on the oracle.com website.
But his summary out of the
document was that really,
Oracle real application clusters
should be part of anybody's
Oracle database strategy.
So here's my standard slide for
what is real application clusters.
What's the architecture behind it?
Because really it's a
single Oracle database.
So for those of you who are familiar with
the Oracle database and know what it is,
then RAC is just bringing
it a step further.
And one of the things you have to
think about slightly differently when
you start talking about RAC is the
fact that we have a single database.
It's one database,
so we have our files sitting
out there on storage,
but we have multiple instances.
And when I say an Oracle instance,
what I'm talking about is the memory
structures and the processes that sit
on the server that allow you to access
that data that you have stored in there.
So in a RAC environment,
we have one to many instances.
So if we look at the picture here,
we start at the bottom.
We've got the database,
and we've got the Oracle instance.
So we've got the Oracle database,
And then we have the data structures
sitting out there on disk.
And because it's a single database,
then you must have it on shared storage.
So usually what that means to people
is that they have it on some type
of storage area network device,
like your X-rayed server that you
have in your Apple environment.
And that is attached to the different
servers that are making up your cluster.
It can also be a network-attached
storage if that's what you choose to use.
So that's connected into Oracle.
So we need a
cluster-supported file system.
In Oracle,
we have introduced the automatic
storage management option of the
database that allows you to do that.
It's a volume manager and a file
system that works in a single server,
single instance Oracle environment,
or a clustered environment.
So you don't have to go out and
pay extra for a third party.
You can also use what
we call raw devices.
Or raw partitions.
Or you can use certified
clustered file systems as well.
So these are connected into your servers.
And instead of just having one server
where we have our database instance,
we can have many.
And Oracle supports up to 100
nodes in the cluster and 100
instances in the RAC database.
Reality is, today,
the biggest clusters that we have in
production are probably around 16 nodes.
Although there's a lot of data.
There's a lot of people out there.
We just helped a customer in
Australia who's installing
a 32-node cluster.
Last year at Oracle World,
if any of you attended Oracle World,
Chuck Rosewatt, our senior executive VP,
he had a demonstration
of a 100-node cluster.
So it's possible.
There's people out there testing 40,
60 nodes in their cluster.
But most people are around 16 today.
Now, your users.
You're connecting into
your Oracle database.
Whether that's an end user connecting
directly to the database or whether
that's an application that's connecting
as an application server layer,
that connects in through
your public network.
In a cluster environment,
we also have a second
network in our environment.
So you have to have at least
two network interfaces.
If you want high availability,
you're probably going to have
more than two network interfaces.
So the second network interface
and the second network is
what we call the interconnect.
It's a private network used just
by the nodes in the cluster.
The cluster software uses that
to talk and do a heartbeat,
to know who the group membership is,
who's a part of the cluster.
And RAC uses it as well to have
what we call shared memory,
the global cache or the shared
cache across all the instances.
What that means is when
you use an Oracle database,
you select data, you insert data.
Generally, that data gets interlinked.
So we bring the data into memory first.
So we bring the data into
memory and manipulate it.
Well, if I've already got the data in
memory on one of the nodes in
the cluster and somebody else
on another node needs that data,
instead of forcing that Oracle instance
to do an IO down to disk,
IOs can be costly operations for
us in our Oracle environment.
I know I've already got it in memory.
And it's much faster for me to ship
directly from memory to memory,
the SGA to the SGA,
than it is to ship directly to the SGA.
So I can ship that block,
whether it's just a shared
block that's selected or a
dirty block that's been updated,
and go directly from
one cache to another.
So we have our two network interfaces.
We have our public network.
We have our private network
for the interconnect.
This can be all managed
from a single point.
Just because you have six nodes,
ten nodes,
a hundred nodes in your cluster,
doesn't mean you have to do
a hundred Oracle installs.
All of the utilities
that Oracle provides,
the Oracle Universal Installer,
the Database Configuration Assistant,
the Network Configuration Assistant,
Grid Control, all are cluster aware.
So they allow you a central point
of control for your cluster.
And you also have command line
interfaces such as the SRV CTL command
line to allow you from any point in
the cluster to manage the environment.
So what are best practices
for deploying it?
If you're going to start on a project
to deploy RAC in your environment,
here's some of the things
you need to think about.
And really what I want to say up
front is successfully deploying
RAC isn't all about technology.
It's pretty cool technology.
I like it.
I've been using it ever since
it started back in 9i release 1.
But a lot of the times the
problems we see people having
isn't just the RAC technology,
but it's their whole environment.
And yes, clusters are a little bit
more complex than a single
instance Oracle environment is.
So you need to have some
good operating procedures.
You need to have a test environment.
Don't have a single node test
environment if a cluster is where
you're deploying it in production.
You want to test these
things before you go live.
And you've got to have change control.
A lot of times if you start throwing
fixes in there and not knowing what
the right hand and left hand are doing,
you'll end up with a problem.
your cluster's down
and you're in trouble.
So let's look at a few of the
things that we want to do.
Often when people are deploying RAC,
the reason they're doing it is
either to scale their application.
And the nice thing about RAC is
it allows you to take advantage
of more commodity type hardware.
You can take a whole
bunch of two CPU boxes,
cluster them together,
and support a very large application.
You can take advantage of the lower costs
that these smaller servers provide you.
[Transcript missing]
Now, if you're doing high availability or
even any application that's mission
critical to your organization,
you usually have a service level.
And if you're doing it with RAC,
we really want you to start up
front and define that service
level with your customer.
If it's a third party,
if it's your business organization,
understand what your objective you're
achieving with this cluster is,
what their expectations are,
and be realistic.
I mean, you have to,
if you want very high availability,
RAC is a piece of the technology
that allows you to get there.
But it is not the be
all and end all story.
You have to have the right
hardware underneath it.
No single point of failure
in your environment.
So there's a lot of pieces around it.
So link your objectives as a
technology person to what the
business is looking for and make sure
everybody's on the same page up front.
To avoid disappointment when you go live.
a few months later.
I mentioned this before
and I'll mention it again.
Automatic storage management,
it's a feature of your Oracle database,
no extra cost to you.
You can use it whether you're a
single instance Oracle environment
or a clustered environment.
And it's really there to make
manageability of your database easy.
We're growing in databases.
I don't know anybody who shrinks their
data in their database and has less
data this year than they did last year.
We all have more data to manage.
And most of us don't have
another DBA sitting beside us.
In fact, a lot of us have less in our
team than we did last year.
So what ISM is all about is automating
the best practices for managing the
storage behind your Oracle database.
We've been professing for years,
stripe and mirror everything,
the same technology it's called.
So we take the data,
we stripe it across all
the disks you give us,
and mirroring for high availability.
So that's what Oracle's doing is
automating those best practices with ASM.
It provides excellent support
as far as performance.
And it makes it easy.
You add disks, you remove disks,
you don't have to worry about it.
So really, automatic storage management,
as long as the operating
system sees the disk,
you tell Oracle, here's the disk,
and we manage where all the
files that are part of the
Oracle database are put on the disk.
You don't have to think about it anymore.
You don't have to have a storage
administrator spend time going,
oh, this index file's hot,
let's move it over here.
We take care of that.
So it provides load balancing of the IO.
If you need more storage,
it's easy to add disk.
You can add capacity on demand.
As long as the OS sees the new disk,
you tell ASM, here's the new disk,
and what ASM does behind the scenes is
it spreads the data across this new disk.
It does it real time.
You don't have to take an outage.
We do it behind the scenes while
the database is still working.
Oracle Virtual IPs.
With Oracle Database 10g,
we introduced the
concept of a virtual IP.
A virtual IP is just another
IP that is on the same subnet
as your public network,
so where your users are connecting in.
Each instance or each node in your
cluster will have a virtual IP,
and that is what your client should be
using to connect to the Oracle instances.
So we give it the
virtual IP on each node,
the listener listens on that address,
the users connect via that address.
During normal operations,
it works exactly the same as
your public LAN ID or your
host name of your environment.
The reason we put it in there is if
we have a failure in the cluster,
our goal in a RAC environment is
to recover as fast as possible.
And the virtual IP helps us to do that.
We don't have to wait
for network timeouts.
Depending on the platform,
these network timeouts
can be 5-10 minutes.
That's not going to make
your system highly available.
So what happens is if we lose a node,
the virtual IP for that node fails
over to another instance in the
cluster or another node in the cluster.
But when it's on another node,
not its home node,
all it's doing is sending a NAC.
Sending an error back to the client
immediately so the client can try
another address in its address list
to connect into the RAC database.
So we don't have to wait for
TCP IP to clean up those ports.
So please, your clients, your server,
your listener need to have the
virtual IP in its addresses.
Automatic workload management.
This is some features that we
started in 9i and we extended in 10g.
And that's the concept
of having a service.
So traditionally your database
was a single service to your
application and your application
connected to the database.
Well in 10g you can create services
which are a logical structure
that can be a subset of workload
against your RAC environment.
So I could divide my workload
based on modules of my application.
I could do it online versus batch.
I could do it reporting
versus online users.
Because sometimes there's pieces
of work that I want to isolate and
manage within the workload that I'm
running against my RAC database.
For example, if I'm running a service
that's a 10g workload,
I could do it online versus batch.
I could do it reporting
versus online users.
For example, batch.
During the day we may want to
isolate it down to one instance so
that only that instance is affected
if somebody submits a batch job.
But at night if I have lots of
batch work I have to get done,
I may open up that service
across other instances.
So you as the administrator can define
where a service runs at any given
time and it's dynamically altered.
You can change it at any time and
it'll take effect immediately.
The nice thing about a service is
that if I offer a service on an
instance and that instance fails,
I can give it a backup location.
So that we automatically bring
it up on an alternate instance so
that we're always supplying the
service your users can connect.
Nothing changes at the client.
They say connect me to this service
and we find out where the service
is currently active and provide
a connection to that service.
It's linked into some of the
other services that we have.
So you can have a service that's
connected to your database.
You can have a service that's
And the scheduler in the Oracle database
allows you to map a service directly to a
job class and manage your batch that way.
Here's an example of one customer
who consolidated many of their
databases into a 10g RAC cluster.
It's a six-node cluster they're running.
In their environment,
they have four OLTP services that
they run on the first two instances.
They have a reporting service,
a batch service,
and a data warehousing service.
So this allowed them to consolidate
many workloads and manage them
within their six-node RAC cluster.
Fast connection failover.
If you're using JDBC for
your application,
if it's a Java application
connecting into the Oracle database,
we've provided extra integration
to the JDBC driver from Oracle.
So that again,
this network timeout that can make your
application unavailable is eliminated.
If anything changes in the
configuration of your RAC cluster,
we alert the application tier.
So Oracle RAC sends out
what we call a FAN event.
FAN stands for
Fast Application Notification.
That event is published.
The Oracle clients have then
integrated with this technology and
they subscribe to these FAN events.
So your JDBC connection
pool will receive the event.
If it's a down event
like a down instance,
then it will clean up any connections
in its pool that were to that instance.
So when your application is doing a get
connection from the connection pool,
it's going to get a connection to an
instance that's currently available,
not to the failed instance.
We're not waiting for TCP IP to
close off those ports.
So it's easy for your application
to take advantage of it as long as
you're using the Oracle JDBC driver.
You just turn on a data source parameter
and you can immediately take advantage
of faster failover for your client.
Now, if your client is actively executing
a transaction from the connection,
we will abort that transaction
immediately because it's eventually
going to happen because that instance
went down where it was running.
Your application still has
to have its error management.
We're not taking over that function.
But what we're doing is giving your
application an alert immediately,
hey, this instance went down,
this transaction failed.
And if you've written your
application for high availability,
you can immediately do another get
connection and retry the transaction.
In fact, I've got a customer running
their Java application with
this functionality in 10G.
And for their cluster,
no matter what happens in the cluster,
node goes down, instance goes down,
network goes down,
their application transaction,
which is normally a
transaction's milliseconds,
but maximum the transaction
takes is seven seconds or less.
So they've hardened their
environment and managed it so
that they retry their transaction.
And even if it's not a transaction,
they're still going to have to retry it.
And even if an instance has
gone down and nodes crashed,
they can recover and the application
still only ever sees less than seven
seconds for the transaction time.
So it's an easy way to make a
very highly available application.
Another way you can take advantage
of these fan events is what we
call a notification callout.
So this is a script that
you run on the server.
You put it in a directory,
and the directory is
up there on the screen,
and it's in the
Oracle cluster where home.
And we execute it every time
one of these events occurs.
So you can do things like send
a page to your DBA whenever
something happens in the cluster.
Log a trouble ticket if you
have a trouble ticket system.
Log some status information.
And this example up here
is basically doing that.
It's just logging trouble ticket
information on the system.
There's also other samples on
the Oracle technology network.
We've got a sample code page.
If you go to Sample Code,
Real Application Clusters,
and there's examples of
different types of callouts
that you can take advantage of.
Testing.
I've got it down there three
times because it's imperative
that you test your environment.
And I mean testing functionality
as well as testing what we
call destructive testing.
So that's what happens when a node dies?
What happens if the network dies?
What happens if the interconnect
dies on your cluster?
Test these type of things so that
you know what happens and you
and your operating procedures are
written so that you know what to
do in production when that happens.
difference.
So you build a knowledge base within your
organization of how the cluster works,
how to debug things,
how to manage things in your environment.
It's also a good idea to try to get a
realistic workload against your cluster.
If you can do that,
you're way far ahead in making
a successful implementation.
So that you can test changes,
that you can test the workload.
What happens when
I have a thousand users?
It's very different from when I have
two users running the application.
Because contention in
a cluster can hurt you.
And it'll hurt you faster
than in a single instance.
So you've got to look for those
points of contention and program
around it if that's a problem.
RAC does great for scalability.
We have a lot of applications that
scale very well in their clusters.
I've got thousands of people
using it around the world.
But if you've written a
poorly scaling application,
I'm not going to solve the problem
of your application with RAC.
Change control.
Big, big thing in your life.
And I know we all hate it,
but it's necessary.
Understand your environment.
Adhere to the lifecycle
disciplines of testing things
QA before they go production.
Especially if you're getting
into a very mission critical,
highly available environment,
and RAC often gets put
into those environments.
Support procedures.
Make sure that you and
everybody else knows who is
doing what and how to do that.
And how to work with your
partners such as Apple and Oracle.
Are you aware of how to work with us?
MetaLink is a good source of information.
That's Oracle's support.
If you have an Oracle license
and a support agreement,
you get a MetaLink account.
And that's where there's a
huge amount of information.
That's where you open
your trouble tickets.
How do you escalate it if you've
got a mission critical problem?
Make sure you know how to do these
before you have the problem and it's
3am and your system's down and the
VP's looking over your shoulder.
That's not the time to try
to figure out what's going
wrong or how do you close it.
call Oracle to get some help.
Performance.
Monitor your performance and
start out with a baseline.
Know what you're expecting so when
things start to go bad that you
can turn around and compare and
figure out where things went wrong.
Oracle 10g has a lot of
functionality to manage it,
such as our automatic
workload repository.
We take snapshots of the system and
store it so you can go back and figure
out what's going on in your environment.
We also have the automatic database
diagnostic monitor that analyzes these
snapshots of workload and gives you
hints and tips on how to fix things.
In a cluster, there's also StatsPack.
So if you use StatsPack in 9i,
you can use StatsPack in 10g as well.
For a cluster environment,
there's things like false node evictions.
That's where we kick out a
node because something went
wrong and you're not sure why.
Well, you've got to monitor your system
because we have these heartbeats.
We have a heartbeat on the network.
We also have what we call a
voting disk that has a heartbeat.
So if we get into what
we call a split brain,
that means we've lost the network so
the nodes don't talk to each other.
We need to figure out who's alive.
So if we can't talk across the network,
we go to the disk.
And if each instance
has updated the disk,
then we know they're alive.
And we're going to eventually kill
half of the cluster because we can't
have nodes updating the database
who can't talk to each other.
We can't have Oracle instances who can't
talk to each other updating the database.
So the disk heartbeat.
Well, if I can't talk to the disk
and get that heartbeat,
we have what we call a miscount in there.
And if we run over that miscount,
by default that's 30 seconds,
then we're going to evict
whoever we couldn't talk to.
So if you're going to have I/O errors,
or if you have multi-pathing software
or something that allows us not to
talk to the disk for over 30 seconds,
be careful because you're
going to get a node eviction.
So that's what I mean when I say
avoid false node evictions.
You've got to check your logs
and check for things like this.
So if you start having
errors on your network,
if the interconnect can't talk,
then you're going to have
problems in a cluster.
So you need to monitor the network
and make sure that you're not getting
errors on it and we're not losing bits
as we send them across the network.
Here's an example of the automatic
database diagnostic monitor and
the type of report that you get.
So it's looking at the system and
giving you hints of where things
could have gone wrong in your system.
In this environment,
it's identifying SQL that
have contention for you.
So it's pointing you in the
right direction and giving you
hints on how to fix things to
make your system run better.
And generally,
with the events that we publish,
we give you an impact rating.
So that you know if this
has got a high impact,
it's something I want to fix right away.
Low impact,
I may put it off for an outage
that I have down the road.
So some tuning best practices
for your application.
Things like sequences.
If you're using Oracle sequences,
sequence numbers,
that can be a single point
of contention in a cluster.
So we recommend that you cache
them so that you have a number of
sequences cached on each instance.
Of course,
this means that you can't order
the cache or the sequences.
So if you have to have
an ordered sequence,
you may want to look at an
alternative way to generate that.
SQL.
You want to make sure
you're using bind variables.
You want to look at your packages,
your Oracle PL/SQL procedures,
your functions.
Those are often better than
instead of anonymous PL/SQL blocks.
Look at your execution
plans for your SQL.
Make sure your developers are
checking that out before they
put things into production.
Space management.
It's become pretty well best practice
or automatic practice these days,
but still like to mention it.
Things like what we call automatic
segment space management and
locally managed table spaces.
Those make a big difference
in a rack environment,
so make sure you use them.
And also the temporary table space that
you can use for your temp table space.
Application.
DDL can be costly in a RAC environment.
So look at places where you don't need
it and see if you can program around it.
Block contention.
That is really in a cluster
environment the thing that can
cause you the biggest grief.
If everybody in the application has
to update a single block of data,
then in a cluster environment
that piece of data is going to be
shipped everywhere back and forth.
So if there's a high
contention on a single block,
and we are talking about a block,
we're not talking about a block of data,
we're talking about a block of data.
We're talking about a whole object.
But you then need to
look at alternatives.
Having a smaller block size,
partitioning,
things like that allow you to
spread the contention across
multiple blocks so it doesn't
cause you time in your application.
And that is,
indexes are often a big problem and the
same goes for data in your environment.
So small tables with densely
packed data can be a real issue.
So at this point,
I'm going to hand it over to Jeff,
and Jeff's going to talk to you
a little bit more about RAC and
specifically on the Mac OS platform.
Hi, I've been working with Apple and
Oracle for the last little while,
and I've been doing specifically
RAC certification on Tiger.
So one of the things that I'm going to
talk to you a bit about is the upcoming
certification release of 10g on Tiger.
And while I go along,
I'm going to try and incorporate
some of the best practices ideas
that Barb has been talking about
for the last few minutes in order
to show you where you make decision
points about configuring the platform.
Because like Barb says,
this is about platform
engineering best practice.
The application has to be designed well,
but so does the hardware platform
and how you construct actually
the physical pieces in order to
reduce single points of failure,
certainly,
but also to reduce the complexity as
you deploy larger and larger clusters.
The complexity is a factor,
and you want to be able to have
a good solid philosophy towards
the platform engineering.
Currently, RAC runs on the G5 XServe,
and it is--
is going to typically
require at least 4GB of RAM.
And the certified configuration
that we're using for testing
right now in the lab is a dual
CPU configuration with at least 2GHz.
That's the minimum that we recommend.
The 4GB of RAM is probably
sufficient for most modest clusters.
As I go through this,
what I'll be showing you is sort of a
modest mid-level cluster where there are
a lot of platform issues around hardening
that complicate larger clusters.
But I wanted to keep sort of a basic,
simple cluster that's a good sample
so you sort of get the essence
of where the critical platform
engineering choices can be made.
Like Barb said,
you need a shared storage array,
and in that case, that's going to be,
for us, X-rayed storage.
That storage is 2-gigabit fiber channel,
and because of that,
you have to have a PCI fiber channel
card in each node of the cluster.
There are a couple other options that you
can do because you have two PCI slots.
They're PCI X 133 and there are a couple
of other cards you might consider.
One of them is the PCI RAID card.
This card is used for locally
mirroring the disk in the X Serve node.
This provides more mirroring capability
for the installation media for Tiger.
or Panther if you're still using Panther.
And this is going to provide
The other alternative,
because you only have one slot left,
so you kind of have to make a decision
about whether you want to harden
the interconnect network or if you
want to harden the local mirror.
Generally, my advice is probably to go
with the gigabit card and
harden the interconnect network.
If, for some reason,
the root disk does fail on the node,
then the node will fail,
and then that's okay because
RAC is architected to handle
that situation perfectly.
If you harden the interconnect network,
then back to Barb's advice about
minimizing node eviction circumstances,
this minimizes the number of
circumstances where you might get
into a situation where you have to go
out to the voting disk and figure out
whether or not you've got split brain.
But you have these two choices
to put in the other slot.
The first slot, of course,
has to hold the fiber channel card.
One interesting thing that I found
out in the last month or so was
that if you put a PCI video card in,
and you might put one
into the first node,
that video card will clock
down the PCI X bus to the
speed at which that card runs.
And so that might impact the
performance of how fast the
PCI fiber channel card runs.
Most people will probably put
a video card in node 1 in order
to install Oracle using the
Java-based Oracle installation.
And then the other three nodes in an
example cluster where you have four
nodes don't need a video card anyway.
But you might want to have video
cards during integration and testing.
And then the production cluster
might not have them at all.
Or they could be removed during the
final stages of integration testing
as you move the integration cluster
closer to the production cluster.
Again, like Barb said,
it's very important that the
integration cluster physically
match the production cluster.
A lot of people do integration
and staging QA on maybe a couple
of nodes just to make sure
the thing functionally works.
You have to integrate
and test what you deploy.
And I'm repeating that,
and it seems redundant,
but it's very important because the
application may change slightly if you
test it on two nodes and then deploy six.
So you have this option where you can
populate the second PCI slot card,
but before you stage into production,
you might want to pull it out.
And you certainly should do
that before you pull the trigger
on the production cluster.
The shared storage is the X RAID,
X Serve RAID configuration.
Oracle databases and
databases in general,
generally do a lot of I/O.
And what that really means is spindles.
And one of the things we see
a lot is people often buy
storage based on capacity.
or megabytes per second.
For database applications,
these are almost certainly not the
metric you should be focusing on.
The metric that's the most important
for configuring a storage array for
databases of any kind is IOs per
second that you can get off the disk.
The current generation of storage that's
the current generation of spindles that
are provided with the X-Ray are 7200 RPM,
ATA drives.
Depending on circumstances,
they do about 60 to 80 IOs per second.
This is important to know because
this will drive the performance
of your storage array when
it's doing database queries.
Another trick,
because you don't always order
the storage array with batteries,
because if you purchase the SAN,
you don't have to buy the batteries.
If you don't buy the batteries,
you can't turn on the write-back cache,
and that's pretty important.
Typical X-rays come with
a half a gig of memory,
and if that's enabled
as write-back cache,
then having the two
batteries as an option,
which you would have to order
as a configuration option
when you purchase the array,
or order them later if you
already have X-rays installed,
then it gets you a half a
gigabyte of write-back cache.
The other cool thing about the X-ray
is that unlike traditional ATA drives
that don't support tagged queuing,
the X-ray does this,
which improves the IOP performance
of an individual ATA spindle.
So it's very likely,
I have not tested this specifically,
I'm sure Apple performance
groups internally have,
but I don't have the data in front of me.
It's very likely that with tagged
queuing support in the X-ray,
you're probably on the upper
end of the 60 to 80 range IOP.
So that's pretty good.
Again, RAID 0 plus 1 is
probably the best option.
I'll talk a little more about that in
the context of when you deploy ASM,
because ASM might give you,
a good option for striping because
it's more aware of the workload.
And,
There's some trade-offs there that
I want to talk about in a minute.
But generally speaking, for instance,
if you wanted to deploy
a rack on raw partitions,
then it's best to do RAID 0 plus 1.
RAID 0 plus 1 is mirrored pairs of
disks that then constitute the stripe.
And that's probably the best performance,
certainly for utilizing IOPS.
It does waste a lot of space,
but the name of the game
here is IOs per second,
and that's a spindle count.
In a RAID 0 plus 1 configuration,
you are able to lose any drive
and not compromise the stripe.
Getting the X-RAID to do the replacement
re-silvering is probably going to be
faster and transparent to the operating
system and transparent to Oracle.
and will probably do it much faster.
The software configuration that
I've been working on lately is
getting ready to release and
certify Oracle 10g on Tiger.7,
10.4.7.
Some minimum software configurations
apply to both 10.3.9 Panther and 10.4.7,
the version of Java.
The version of Oracle and the C compiler
that's required in order to link them.
Depending on how you install
the software and how many
How many SDKs you choose to install,
and many people might
just install all of Xcode.
At the bare minimum,
you have to make sure
that the X11 SDK is there,
or parts of the
Oracle installer will not work.
But other than that, everything else that
you would think to need,
like the BSD SDK and the base SDKs,
need to be there in order to link.
When Oracle installs,
it copies the binaries
off the release media,
and then it relinks it all for
the environment in question,
your local environment.
And so in order to do that,
it needs a functional link
environment with all the libraries.
It also needs some source headers in
order to compile bits and pieces prior to
a full linking of the entire binary set.
ASM, along with raw partitions,
will be the certified file
systems that are supported by 10g.
And that certification should be done
momentarily within the next month or so.
There are a couple of things
that you need to be aware of when
you use raw partitions or ASM,
and that's allocating storage
for the Oracle clusterware.
Clusterware used to be called CRS,
which stands for Cluster Ready Services,
and you might see that
in the documentation.
CRS and clusterware are the same product.
Clusterware requires dedicated
partitions for the voting
disk and the registry disk.
These can be about 256 megabytes.
The actual files that are
consumed is a little bit smaller,
but that's an easy number to remember.
At least it was an easy
number for me to remember.
And those two files should be on
a dedicated LUN and not shared
physically with any of the media
that you decide to either allocate
for raw partition databases or as a
pool of LUNs that you've allocated
on the X-ray in order to give to ASM.
So in our case,
we would take a mirrored pair,
and unfortunately that
would be a 230 gig drive,
and we'd carve up two
256 megabyte partitions.
You don't want to put anything
else on this partition,
because when things get critical
and Oracle has to figure out
whether or not the cluster has
gone into an indeterminate state or
it needs to detect for split brain,
it does that by reading and
writing the voting disks,
and it needs to do that quickly,
and it needs to do that a lot.
And that's combined with
the interconnect technology.
That's how the cluster
keeps itself aware.
That pair of disks which
constitute that single LUN,
which contains two 256
megabyte partitions,
is very important and
needs to be set aside.
If you're familiar with doing
admin in Tiger or Panther,
then you would use the PDISC and
the disk label tools to do that.
Disk label is a tool that allows
you to be a step removed from
the raw inodes that are in /dev.
So it gives you a little more
administrative abstraction
from the raw inodes.
And then the disk label inodes that end
up in /dev once you run the command are
actually owned by Oracle and not by root.
And that usually makes the
administrator a little more comfortable,
because then the actual underlying
inodes are still owned by the system.
Currently,
Oracle 10g on Panther and Tiger is
a 32-bit version of Oracle.
As you might know from using
Oracle on other platforms,
it's available in 32- and
64-bit configurations.
This version, in order to maintain
compatibility with Panther,
is a 32-bit version.
The limit of the shared memory, SGA,
on each instance or each node,
instance and node are being used
interchangeably in that case,
is 1.7 gig.
There is an old trick that used to
be done in Solaris and on 32-bit
versions of Linux that is resurrected,
again, for this port.
And this would allow you
to relink the binary.
And change the attach address of
where the shared memory region
attaches in the process space.
And that can give you up to 3.7
gig of shared memory per node.
So, again,
if you had a 4 gig node and you
could relink using Gen KSMS,
which is the tool that
relocates the attach address...
Once you relink,
then the new attach address takes
effect in the Oracle binary.
Then you can have up to 3.7 gig.
At that point,
you'd probably want to have
more than 4 gig per node,
because you're going to
need room for foreground
processes to connect to Oracle.
And if you had all 3.7 gig
allocated on a 4 gig machine,
you'd probably start swapping.
So that wouldn't be very handy.
Sysctl is probably the most tweaking
you have to do in terms of tweaking
the Panther or Tiger kernel in
order to support or to change
the defaults in order to run a
rack comfortably on a system.
Again, kern.shemmax,
and there's a whole bunch of shared
memory parameters that are in the
install guide that go with that.
But shemmax is sort of the big
money shared memory parameter.
This sets the upper limit
of how big a segment can be,
and the value here shown is 1.7.
Again, Barb mentioned that if you
had a production license,
with that production license,
you get a MetaLink account.
And with that MetaLink account,
you are able to look up application
notes on how to do specific changes
regarding this remapping operation.
Global Cache Services,
this is the interconnect that
allows nodes to talk to each other.
You can use instances
to talk to each other.
This interconnect runs over UDP,
and so the standard UDP buffer defaults
in Tiger and Panther are not quite
sufficient for the kind of traffic load
that you might expect in a rack cluster.
And again, making these defaults higher
is towards minimizing the
node eviction probabilities.
Process limits,
I believe the default is 200.
It's quite low.
And so on a typical Oracle cluster,
there's at least 30 or 40 background
processes that Oracle starts up
without anybody even logging in.
So depending on the number of
connected users or connected sessions,
which could map back to
the application tier,
which could support multiple
application tier connections,
but the number of actual foreground
connections combined with the number
of background connections Oracle starts
up certainly will exceed 100.
By setting it to 2,000,
that's probably going to be more
than enough for that given node.
I think I will hand it
back to Barb at this time,
and she'll wrap it up,
and then we're going to have
a Q&A session at the end.
Thanks, Jeff.
Okay, just to summarize,
just so you know,
you can run Oracle RAC 10g
on your Mac OS platform.
And it's there to provide you
with a flexible scalability
and high availability option
for your Oracle database.
Remember,
if you're going to implement it,
change control, testing,
a good test environment is
huge in helping you make that
project a successful one for you.
And really,
Oracle Metalink is an excellent
source of information,
as well as the Oracle Technology Network.
If you go otn.oracle.com slash rack,
you'll get to the rack page.
Here's some list of different URLs of
different information that are useful
to you when you're going to rack.
So have a look at them.
Go look.
Most of those are publicly available
to you other than Metalink.
Metalink.
This is the one that you have to
have your support account for.
But otherwise,
it's all public information.